# nf-core/seqinspector: Output

## Introduction

This document describes the output produced by the pipeline. Most of the plots are taken from the MultiQC report, which summarises results at the end of the pipeline.

The directories listed below will be created in the results directory after the pipeline has finished. All paths are relative to the top-level results directory.

## Pipeline overview

The pipeline is built using [Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/) and processes data using the following steps:

- [Seqtk](#seqtk) - Subsample a specific number of reads per sample
- [FastQC](#fastqc) - Raw read QC
- [Kraken2](#kraken2) - Phylogenetic assignment of reads using k-mers
- [Krona](#krona) - Interactive visualization of Kraken2 results
- [MultiQC](#multiqc) - Aggregate report describing results and QC from the whole pipeline
- [Pipeline information](#pipeline-information) - Report metrics generated during the workflow execution

### Seqtk

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `seqtk/`
  - `*_fastq`: FastQ file after being subsampled to the sample_size value.

</details>

[Seqtk](https://github.com/lh3/seqtk) samples sequences by number.

### FastQC

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `fastqc/`
  - `*_fastqc.html`: FastQC report containing quality metrics.
  - `*_fastqc.zip`: Zip archive containing the FastQC report, tab-delimited data file and plot images.

</details>

[FastQC](http://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/fastqc/) gives general quality metrics about your sequenced reads. It provides information about the quality score distribution across your reads, per base sequence content (%A/T/G/C), adapter contamination and overrepresented sequences. For further reading and documentation see the [FastQC help pages](http://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/fastqc/Help/).

### Kraken2

[Kraken](https://ccb.jhu.edu/software/kraken2/) is a taxonomic sequence classifier that assigns taxonomic labels to DNA sequences. Kraken examines the k-mers within a query sequence and uses the information within those k-mers to query a database. That database maps -mers to the lowest common ancestor (LCA) of all genomes known to contain a given k-mer.

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `kraken2/`
  - `<sample>.kraken2.report.txt`: A report containing information on the phylogenetic assignment of reads in a given sample.
  - `<db_name>/`
    - `<sample_id>_<db_name>.classified.fastq.gz`: FASTQ file containing all reads that had a hit against a reference in the database for a given sample
    - `<sample_id>_<db_name>.unclassified.fastq.gz`: FASTQ file containing all reads that did not have a hit in the database for a given sample
    - `<sample_id>_<db_name>.classifiedreads.txt`: A list of read IDs and the hits each read had against each database for a given sample

</details>

The main taxonomic classification file from Kraken2 is the `*report.txt` file. It gives you the most information for a single sample.
You will only receive the `.fastq` and `*classifiedreads.txt` file if you supply `--kraken2_save_reads` and/or `--kraken2_save_readclassifications` parameters to the pipeline.

### Krona

[Krona](https://github.com/marbl/Krona) allows the exploration of (metagenomic) hierarchical data with interactive zooming, multi-layered pie charts.

Krona charts will be generated by the pipeline for supported tools (Kraken2, Centrifuge, Kaiju, and MALT)

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `krona/`
  - `<tool_name>_<db_name>.html`: per-tool/per-database interactive HTML file containing hierarchical piecharts

</details>

The resulting HTML files can be loaded into your web browser for exploration. Each file will have a dropdown to allow you to switch between each sample aligned against the given database of the tool.

### MultiQC

nf-core/seqinspector will generate the following MultiQC reports:

- one global reports including all the samples listed in the samplesheet
- one group report per unique tag. These reports compile samples that share the same tag.

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `multiqc/`
  - `global_report`
    - `multiqc_report.html`: a standalone HTML file that can be viewed in your web browser.
    - `multiqc_data/`: directory containing parsed statistics from the different tools used in the pipeline.
    - `multiqc_plots/`: directory containing static images from the report in various formats.
  - `group_reports`
    - `tag1/`
      - `multiqc_report.html`
      - `multiqc_data/`
      - `multiqc_plots/`
    - `tag2/`
      - `multiqc_report.html`
      - `multiqc_data/`
      - `multiqc_plots/`
    - ...

</details>

[MultiQC](http://multiqc.info) is a visualization tool that generates a single HTML report summarising all samples in your project. Most of the pipeline QC results are visualised in the report and further statistics are available in the report data directory.

Results generated by MultiQC collate pipeline QC from supported tools e.g. FastQC. The pipeline has special steps which also allow the software versions to be reported in the MultiQC output for future traceability. For more information about how to use MultiQC reports, see <http://multiqc.info>.

### Pipeline information

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `pipeline_info/`
  - Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
  - Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.yml`. The `pipeline_report*` files will only be present if the `--email` / `--email_on_fail` parameter's are used when running the pipeline.
  - Reformatted samplesheet files used as input to the pipeline: `samplesheet.valid.csv`.
  - Parameters used by the pipeline run: `params.json`.

</details>

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.
